
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="wireframes_mockups_and_prototyping">Wireframes, Mockups and Prototyping</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Once we&#039;ve settled on an idea of what we want to build, we begin the process of wireframing, mockingup and prototyping. The reason why we do several iterations of these steps is so that our client can be happy with the final result. In case of Polycademy, you have more control over the final result as you are the primary client.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Wireframes, Mockups and Prototyping" [1-383] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="wireframing">Wireframing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Wireframing is best done on pen and paper. You can begin at low fidelity wireframing, this means low details. The less details you use, the faster you iterate since you focus on the big picture. 37 Signals recommends using a big pencil. If you prefer you can also high fidelity computer assisted design tools such as <a href="http://pencil.evolus.vn/" class="urlextern" title="http://pencil.evolus.vn/"  rel="nofollow">Pencil</a>. Below is a video demonstration of Pencil. Try to complete 5 - 10 iterations of wireframing. Focus on the big picture stuff, but think back to user experience and the user interface guidelines.
</p>
<div class="vshare__center"><!--[if !IE]> -->
<object width="520" height="406" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" data="http://www.youtube.com/v/xruQjGyD4fo?allowFullScreen=true&amp;allowScriptAccess=always&amp;fs=1">
<!-- <![endif]-->
<!--[if IE]>
<object width="520" height="406" classid="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000">
    <param name="movie" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/xruQjGyD4fo?allowFullScreen=true&amp;allowScriptAccess=always&amp;fs=1" />
<!--><!-- -->
  <param name="allowFullScreen" value="true" />
  <param name="allowScriptAccess" value="always" />
  <param name="fs" value="1" />
  <param name="FlashVars" value="allowFullScreen=true&amp;allowScriptAccess=always&amp;fs=1" />
The <a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/flashplayer/">Adobe Flash Plugin</a> is needed to display this content.
</object>
<!-- <![endif]-->
</div>
</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Wireframing" [384-989] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="mocking_up">Mocking Up</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The next stage is mocking up. Most professional web designers use Photoshop for this task. The process of mocking up is taking the wireframing and turning it into an image on Photoshop. The image doesn&#039;t need to be exact, but it should be to scale of your final design output on the browser. This is where you apply your colour choices. This stage is important as you create the necessary layout graphics in Photoshop. You then cut these out for prototyping.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Mocking Up" [990-1473] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="prototyping">Prototyping</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The term prototyping here will refer to turning the Photoshop mockup into an <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>/<abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> template. We&#039;ll examine these in detail in the <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>/<abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> section.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Prototyping" [1474-] -->