
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="codex">Codex</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Welcome to Polycademy&#039;s Codex. This is part of our <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge Management System" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge Management System">Knowledge Management System</a>. It will replace the standard textbook you get from your everyday school. This system is a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki">Wiki</a>. A wiki is a website software which allows its users to collaboratively create content. This means you, as a student, get to contribute to the course material and thus improve the content for future users. It is a like a never-ending book!
</p>

<p>
The Codex contains the structure of our courses, the core class material, code examples, and tutorials for all the coding aspects we are going to learn. You should use this as your reference for when you go through the class and when you are programming your application. This wiki will also link to other wikis and sources of documentation, to allow you a greater understanding of the mechanics of software development.
</p>

<p>
The Codex is a collaborative undertaking so start sharing your knowledge with your fellow students and they likewise will share knowledge with you. To understand how to share on the Codex and our other technologies please refer to our <a href="/doku.php?id=wiki:manual" class="wikilink1" title="wiki:manual"> Operating Manual</a>.
</p>

<p>
Polycademy is a portmanteau of two words, ”<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymath" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymath">Polymath</a>” and ”<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy">Academy</a>”. We intend to eventually teach many different subjects in this institution, however we begin by offering Web Application Development. Please see our <a href="/doku.php?id=business_of_polycademy:long_term_road_map" class="wikilink1" title="business_of_polycademy:long_term_road_map">Long Term Road Map</a> for more.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Codex" [1-1432] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="courses">Courses</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Here is our current course offering:
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Courses" [1433-1491] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit3" id="web_application_development">1. Web Application Development</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
<a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:start" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:start"> Web Application Development</a> is simply the development of software applications that are deployed over the internet. Why web application development and not the standard desktop application development? Because the web deployment offers several (advantageous) features:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Faster distribution and deployment - No need of installation, no need of restart, no need of changing files on the client computer results in higher <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conversion Rate" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conversion Rate">conversion rates</a>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Lower risk of piracy - Software becomes delivered as a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software as a service" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software as a service">service</a> instead of as an end product.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Multi-platform support - Since the application is installed on the server rather than the client, the issue of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing Platform" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computing Platform">platform</a> fragmentation is reduced. This means applications are easier to support, because users do not need to install it and face installation issues, outdated software or compatibility issues.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Immediate Feedback - Since users have to connect to the server, this allows tracking of usage styles. This form of immediate feedback can be used to customise the application to each user&#039;s style and also to figure out how to improve your software.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Shorter Lifecycles - This allows you to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Release early, release often" class="interwiki iw_wp" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Release early, release often">release early, release often</a>. This means your innovation cycle is faster allowing you to outpace any desktop based competition. Take for example, if you were to release a new desktop application, it would take some time for every user to update to the new application and some may never. Whereas if every user had to connect to a server to run the application, the application would always be up to date and you would get immediate feedback on how your customers responded.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
At the same time it has some disadvantages. For example, the application&#039;s performance will always be limited by internet speed and availability. However innovations in internet speed and internet availability has driven the adoption of web applications over desktop applications. These are reducing our dependency on local client CPU or GPU processing for delivery of high performance or high availability of applications. Jeff Atwood agrees.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
Visit the <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:start" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:start"> start page</a> to begin the course.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "1. Web Application Development" [1492-3957] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="project_licensing">Project Licensing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
It is important to note that since we are freely using Github to host the code for the project, the project will be accessible to anyone. However you do not need to worry about this. Firstly your code does not need to be licensed as open source. It is simply accessible. But it requires people to actively search for your code and seek it out, which is unlikely due to your newly minted status as a developer. However if you&#039;d like, you can purchase a private account at your own expense.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Project Licensing" [3958-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<a href="http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2009/08/all-programming-is-web-programming.html" class="urlextern" title="http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2009/08/all-programming-is-web-programming.html"  rel="nofollow">All Programming is Web Programming</a></div>
</div>
