
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="lesson_32_-_wap">Lesson 32 - WAP</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
<strong>Expected Work</strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Implement your custom technology stack</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Continue working to convert your server side application into an <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr> to be used with an single page application</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Route all resources to /api/resource, route everything else to Home. Use <code>$this→resources</code>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> All controllers need Index, Show, Create, Update, Delete that corresponds to the route&#039;s Get Post Put and Delete</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> All controllers composer JSON not <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr></div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> All models need CRUD and possibly “read_all” method.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Change form validation library to Polycademy/Validation</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Input is acquired from <code>$this→input→json</code></div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> All messages need to go through an output and input message mapper in the inflector helper to convert snake_case to camelCase and vice versa.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Implement CSRF by using the modified MY_Security library that does a CSRF verify on all requests except GET and on the <abbr title="Hyper Text Transfer Protocol">HTTP</abbr> header instead of the POST payload. Also make sure that the cookie name gets passed into javascript.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong>Agile</strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What did you since last session</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> What do you want to achieve today</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Any problems?</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong>Lecture</strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The history of the internet, through the <abbr title="Hyper Text Transfer Protocol">HTTP</abbr> request and <abbr title="Hyper Text Transfer Protocol">HTTP</abbr> response model</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The history of the browser.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> The progression from Web 1.0 to Web 2.0 to RESTful Single Page Applications</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Prepare to start on javascript in 2 days!</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> 24 days left!</div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
<strong>Practice</strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Finish your <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Integrated custom technology</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Prepare to change authentication strategy too</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
