
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="web_design">Web Design</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Web design is a cross-disciplinary field involving many methodologies, areas of study and technology. Web design deals with the front-end client side of any web application. This is basically everything that the customer sees and feels about the product. It involves graphic design, user interface design, mark up such as <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> and <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr>, client side scripts such as Javascript, content authoring, user experience design, search engine optimisation, disabled accessibility, internet browser quirks, and mobile responsive design. Some aspects of web design does cross over into web development so there are many grey areas. However web professionals can specialise in either web design or web programming.
</p>

<p>
We start with web design before web programming because at Polycademy we like to make the function follow the form.<sup><a href="#fn__1" id="fnt__1" class="fn_top">1)</a></sup> By working on the visual elements, the user experience, and interfacing methods first, we get a better idea of what the product will look and feel to the end user. The customer will not see, nor understand the plumbing (programming) of the application, so they won&#039;t care. Therefore we need to first plot out the design of the web application before we get to the programming. You can also think of web design as the prototype that you can test out, to see flaws that otherwise would not be noticed if you went straight ahead to programming. It also allows you to pitch it to potential investors and partners so they can see the vision.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Web Design" [1-1564] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="design_theory">Design Theory</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Before we head into the practical stage of design with Photoshop and markup, we must first get acquainted with design theory. Design can be defined as a strategic approach for someone to achieve a unique specification of an object, which is intended to accomplish goals and satisfy requirements in a particular environment, while under constraints. It is important to understand that while design can be art, art cannot be design. Art is a means of self-expression, whereas design is a means of selling a product or service. Therefore art inspires emotion whereas design motivates actions. Art is interpreted so a different message is sent to different people, whereas design is understood so it is the same message to everyone. You can find out more about the differences from John O&#039;Nolan&#039;s article at the <a href="http://www.webdesignerdepot.com" class="urlextern" title="http://www.webdesignerdepot.com"  rel="nofollow">Web Designer Depot</a>.<sup><a href="#fn__2" id="fnt__2" class="fn_top">2)</a></sup>
</p>

<p>
In this section, we&#039;ll examine theories and concepts in design that is relevant to the modern day web industry.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> We&#039;ll first go through the philosophies in <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:aesthetic_foundations" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:aesthetic_foundations">aesthetics</a> to lay down our foundations.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> As this course is intended to teach how to design the actual web application itself, then understanding the <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:user_experience_design" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:user_experience_design">user experience</a> of the product will be integral to design.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Then we&#039;ll get get more practical by examining the theory of <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:user_interface" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:user_interface">user interfaces</a> which is the main thing that your customers will interact with.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Then we&#039;ll practice the industry standard of <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:wireframing_mockups_and_prototyping" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:wireframing_mockups_and_prototyping">wireframing, mockups and prototyping</a>.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Design Theory" [1565-3254] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="photoshop">Photoshop</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
At this point students should have already completed a wireframe of their product, understood their brand and theme, designed their user interface and user experience, and are ready to apply their design theory to an actual mockup.
</p>

<p>
To begin using Photoshop, we&#039;ll go through some of the common tools and options. Photoshop is a complex application but by starting with a few video tutorials you can start to see how a designer methodically and iteratively applies colours, lines and shapes to the canvas.
</p>

<p>
VIDEO ON COMMON TOOLS (relevant tools, such as rulers, layers, list of resources (gradients), 960 grid, kuler, scanlines, custom brushes, save on web process)
</p>

<p>
3 VIDEOS SHOWING PHOTOSHOP MOCKING UP
</p>

<p>
In class, I&#039;ll do some live demonstration of the Photoshop process. It is best to use a grid overlay to help with your proportioning so you don&#039;t need to calculate pixels just to align something. Once the design is finished, we can either manually slice the design into parts or apply the <a href="http://designshack.net/articles/graphics/how-to-make-slicing-suck-less-tips-and-tricks-for-slicing-a-psd/" class="urlextern" title="http://designshack.net/articles/graphics/how-to-make-slicing-suck-less-tips-and-tricks-for-slicing-a-psd/"  rel="nofollow">slicing tool</a>. I prefer to do manual slicing, since my workflow creates independent layers anyway.
</p>

<p>
<a href="http://vandelaydesign.com/blog/design/photoshop-layout-tutorials/" class="urlextern" title="http://vandelaydesign.com/blog/design/photoshop-layout-tutorials/"  rel="nofollow">http://vandelaydesign.com/blog/design/photoshop-layout-tutorials/</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Photoshop" [3255-4549] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="html_css">HTML &amp; CSS</h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "HTML & CSS" [4550-4573] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit5" id="syntax">Syntax</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Reference to <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> syntax ⇒ <a href="http://reference.sitepoint.com/html" class="urlextern" title="http://reference.sitepoint.com/html"  rel="nofollow">http://reference.sitepoint.com/html</a> AND <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/HTML" class="urlextern" title="https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/HTML"  rel="nofollow">https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/HTML</a> AND <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTML/HTML5" class="urlextern" title="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTML/HTML5"  rel="nofollow">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTML/HTML5</a>
</p>

<p>
Reference to <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> syntax ⇒ <a href="http://reference.sitepoint.com/css" class="urlextern" title="http://reference.sitepoint.com/css"  rel="nofollow">http://reference.sitepoint.com/css</a> AND <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/Getting_Started" class="urlextern" title="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/Getting_Started"  rel="nofollow">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/Getting_Started</a> AND <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/CSS_Reference" class="urlextern" title="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/CSS_Reference"  rel="nofollow">https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/CSS_Reference</a>
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="css_preprocessor">CSS Preprocessor</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Less reference ⇒ <a href="http://lesscss.org/" class="urlextern" title="http://lesscss.org/"  rel="nofollow">http://lesscss.org/</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Syntax" [4574-5014] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit6" id="html_css_framework">HTML/CSS Framework</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
H5BP + Twitter Bootstrap ⇒ Initializr
</p>

<p>
Reference for Bootstrap ⇒ <a href="http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/" class="urlextern" title="http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/"  rel="nofollow">http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/</a>
</p>

</div>

<h4 id="common_ui_elements">Common UI Elements</h4>
<div class="level4">

<p>
Intro to <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> 5 (students should learn this with the <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr> section. So every class will focus on a few tags and tools, but allow the students to mix and match what&#039;s needed to actually create a prototype for their photoshop mockup. The slicing will be important here)
</p>

<p>
Using <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> 5 boilerplate
</p>

<p>
Understanding all the elements in <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> 5 with case studies and examples. Code examples will be used here along with html demonstrations with no styling of <abbr title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</abbr>!
</p>

<p>
Validation
</p>

<p>
Favicon
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "HTML/CSS Framework" [5015-5652] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit7" id="tools">Tools</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
960css
</p>

<p>
Kuler for colours
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Tools" [5653-5696] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit8" id="debugging">Debugging</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
Using firebug for html/css
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Debugging" [5697-5745] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="browser_testing">Browser Testing</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Using browsers… to test and see for differences. Then use firebug to manipulate changes. This relies more on experience, there&#039;s no real good place to find out browser quirks. Eventually you&#039;ll realise how to design pages that are roughly the same.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Browser Testing" [5746-6026] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="mobile_design">Mobile Design</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Mobile first
</p>

<p>
Fluid design
</p>

<p>
Mobile UX
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Mobile Design" [6027-6092] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="copywriting">Copywriting</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
About copywriting…
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Copywriting" [6093-6139] -->
<h3 class="sectionedit12" id="a_b_testing">A/B testing</h3>
<div class="level3">

<p>
About A/B testing.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "A/B testing" [6140-] --><div class="footnotes">
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__1" id="fn__1" class="fn_bot">1)</a></sup> 
<a href="http://gettingreal.37signals.com/ch09_Interface_First.php" class="urlextern" title="http://gettingreal.37signals.com/ch09_Interface_First.php"  rel="nofollow">Interface First</a></div>
<div class="fn"><sup><a href="#fnt__2" id="fn__2" class="fn_bot">2)</a></sup> 
<a href="http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2009/09/the-difference-between-art-and-design/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2009/09/the-difference-between-art-and-design/"  rel="nofollow">http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2009/09/the-difference-between-art-and-design/</a></div>
</div>
