
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="lesson_1_-_wap">Lesson 1 - WAP</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Greet Participants</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Introduce yourself and go around the room</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Housekeeping – internet and restrooms and ability to enter the place (contact details)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Icebreaker (begin)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Examine Expectations</div>
<ol>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Ask them what they are expecting?</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> What are your objectives and what are their objectives?</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Talk about the course structure</div>
<ol>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Wiki (flipped classroom) expectations, still under development, encourage participation</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Timing (2 – 3 weeks for design), rest for programming, but parallel, and revisit design.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Agile workflow (weekly review) Daily scrum.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Syntax and Frameworks is your responsibility, I will begin each day with core concepts, but then you have work on it, and I’ll go around to each person addressing the problems highlighted during the daily scrum.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Hours, to complete your application. Self study is a must.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Read the prescribed readings/videos and explore further. Especially syntax and framework code.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Always have the documentation opened up, don’t try to remember, just practice.</div>
</li>
<li class="level3"><div class="li"> Teamwork, you can work together but even if you’re doing things differently, make sure to share your ideas and problems. Some may know things you don’t know. Let’s operate as if we’re  a single company, not separate companies.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Expectation of writing a blog (tumblr or wordpress) – reflection is important. Also allows me to see their feedback on how it can be improved.</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Mentor assignment (setup invitation)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Individual Meetings (later)</div>
</li>
<li class="level2"><div class="li"> Come in any time to the office, and work here. I’ll be here.</div>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Break the ice breaker</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Begin vision &amp; plan. Start at beginning. Begin the solution stack. Give 2 extra days for this. And demonstrate.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> End review – assign reading and wiki permissions.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
