
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="web_application_development">Web Application Development</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Polycademy teaches web application development from a top-down approach. We want to start from the “Why?” before going to the “What?” and finally the “How?”. There is no point learning how to manipulate an array if you don&#039;t know what it&#039;s used for and why it&#039;s used.
</p>

<p>
As students you will be starting with your own project. Polycademy will be expecting that you want to make something awesome, something fun and entertaining, something useful that could simplify or automate our life tasks, and possibly something that makes money.
</p>

<p>
Complex software demands teamwork. You can choose to organise yourself into a group with other students, or you can work alone. However the beauty of the internet and open source software, is that if you make this your career, you will always be working with other people, even people who you may never see in real life, living in another country. Many hands make light work. However just having a group won&#039;t make a project succeed, one needs to learn how to manage, distribute and delegate group work. Therefore software development requires careful planning, methodologies and team work to succeed.
</p>

<p>
The list below is our main categories of interest. Each category has further subtopics. <strong>We will only teach what is required for your application in order to maintain our purposeful learning.</strong> This means that not all topics will be covered. The holes in your knowledge will be either bridged with more advanced topics or through your own interest in learning them. Each topic is self-contained, so feel free to skip to wherever your interest lies. The modularisation and structure of the material will be created ad-hoc to reflect the requirements of each student cohort.
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:vision_and_plan" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:vision_and_plan">Vision &amp; Plan</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:solution_stack" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:solution_stack">Solution Stack</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:web_design" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:web_design">Web Design</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:web_programming" class="wikilink1" title="web_application_development:web_programming">Web Programming</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:multimedia" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:multimedia" rel="nofollow">Multimedia</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:payments" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:payments" rel="nofollow">Payments</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:performance" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:performance" rel="nofollow">Performance</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/doku.php?id=web_application_development:deployment" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:deployment" rel="nofollow">Deployment</a></div>
</li>
</ol>

<p>
Class schedule will be modified depending on project complexity. The more complex your project is, the more knowledge that will be involved. This will be discussed during our first class. There will be a limit on how advanced and complex your project can be. If it is too complex, we may first construct a prototype which can then be further developed.
</p>

</div>
